#Lab Tasks

For lab tasks from here on out, questions that require exploration and responding to on this markdown page will be in bolded text. You should respond to them directly within this markdown file. Markdown is effectively a plaintext, lighweight markup language that is designed to be converted into HTML; more simply, it's some text and symbols you can put into a document that will turn into pretty HTML.
Tasks that specify work to do without a written response will be bulleted.
If you're ever confused about what you need to do for a given task, ask.

## Part #1: exploring the node.js project
Study the project you have cloned. Run it according to the instrucitons in the README, including running the tests. Answer the following questions by editing this file.  This will give you a chance to play with markdown.

> Protip: Using Google to gain additional knowledge or support your conjectures about how something works is great! It's important that you think about everything and come to an understanding, though, so don't use Google as a scapegoat to get the questions done quickly or you will regret it!

#####What is the purpose of app.js? Explain what happens when a user is trying to access a page "kittens", when a user is trying to access the page "petForm", and when the user submits a form on "petForm". Explain what a "route" is.

> The purpose of app.js is to send/receive information to/from the user and the server. It manages routing as well as the different pages throughout the site.
> When a user is trying to access a page "kittens" app.js routes the page and brings up the text "Page under construction!"
> When a user is trying to access the page "petForm" app.js routes the page and brings up a box where the user can enter a name of a pet.
> When the user submits a form on "petForm" app.js gets rid of the text box and displays the text of the name entered, followed by "String Length:" and the string length.
> A "route" is an alteration of the user's view of the website. It adds an identifier (ie: "/kittens") to the URL.

#####What is the contents of the "public" folder? What is each of the html files there and how are they referenced in app.js?

> The "public" folder contains the assets (like images), the stylesheet (the css file), and the web pages (the html files).

#####In your project change the message that appears when the user is trying to access the page "kittens". Describe what you did and how it worked.

> We went into app.js and changed the message in the parentheses of res.send under app.get('/kittens', function(req, res). It worked by changing the information sent to the user when the page "kittens" is displayed.

#####Also change the message that a user sees when they are trying to find a page that doesn't exist.

> We went into app.js and changed the message in the parentheses of res.send under app.get('*', function(req, res). It worked by changing the information sent to the user when they attempt to access a nonexistent page. It also throws some sick Vanilla Ice lyrics at you.

#####Describe what happens when you submit a form on petForm page. What are the form parameters in petForm? What is the method for the form? Where is the form submission handled in the project? How are parameters extracted? How is the resulting message generated? How is this different from accessing the page petForm the first time (to see the form)?

> When you submit a form on the petForm page it posts (loads data from the server) and displays the text of the name entered, followed by "String Length:" and the string length.
> The form parameters in petForm are newPet and submit.
> The method for the form is "post".
> When the user submits their information, the page is handled by petForm.html, which assigns the string of what the user entered to the value "newPet". From there the process is handled by app.js which takes "newPet" and displays the text of the name entered, followed by "String Length:" and the string length.
> The parameters are extracted by app.js.
> The resulting message is generated by app.js.
> This is different from accessing the page petForm the first time because you are not being routed.

#####Where is client-side Javascript defined? Name file(s) in which it is used.

> clientJavascript.js

#####Where is server-side Javascript helper file defined? Where can it be used? Add a function to it and experiment with where you can call this function.

> serverJavascript.js
> It can be used in app.js.

#####What is the purpose of package.json file? What's in it, and what does it mean?

> The package.json file stores information about the project.

#####What's in .gitgnore file? What's the purpose of it?

> The .gitignore file holds the names of folders. It tells Git which files to ignore before you make a commit.

## Part #2: exploring testing

#####Find the testing file, describe where it is located and what it is testing. Run karma (the testing engine) as specified in the Readme and describe results. Do not edit any files at this time.

> clientJavascript.spec.js is located in the javascript folder in the public folder. It is running three different tests. The first test verifies that the function "testStringLength" in clientJavascript.js returns 7 when inputting "kittens". The second test verifies that the function returnKittens located in clientJavaScript.js returns "kittens". The last test fails because it expects returnKittens to return something other than "kittens".

#####After having set up Travis CI with your forked project, play around the page for your project (build history, settings, branches, etc) and describe at least 3 features you think would be useful when troubleshooting a broken project.

> You can see the each commit on github, enabling you to see which commit may have broken your code. It shows which iteration of pushing testing has failed in. And finally it shows pull requests, so you can see who acquired what code at what point, and if they modified the wrong code.

#####What was the build status of your project right after you got everything set up? Use Travis to find any problems, and describe what failed, if anything. (Which files, what lines, why did failure occur, etc.)

> Failing. The file that's failing is clientJavascript.spec.js. The line is expect(returnKittens()).toBe("Not Kittens!");. Failure occurred because returnKittens() returns "kittens" and the test expected it to return "Not Kittens!"

#####Fix any problems described in the previous question. Describe how you fixed them. Push your fix to GitHub and post a link to the passing build (from build history) here.

> We fixed the problem described in the previous question by putting "not" in the line, making the expectation for the test that what was being returned was not "Not Kittens!".
> https://travis-ci.org/sophiamitchellette/3601-S16-lab2_javascript-node/builds/105482815


- Study jasmine testing syntax. Think of a Javascript function, describe its behavior by writing tests for it (this is test-driven development, or TDD). Add the function, run the tests. (Actually do this. Don't forget to commit your changes!)

## Part #3: adding a GPA calculator

- Add a page to the project (don't forget to add it to git) that has a form for letter grades and credits for three classes.

- In TDD fashion, add tests for functions needed to compute the GPA and then implement the functions themselves. Note, however, that karma doesn't work with exports, so after you have tested the functions, you would need to create copies of them that you are exporting. This is awkward and will be fixed in subsequent node setups. Also make sure to add the file that you are testing to karma.conf.js.

- Add a route to app.js to display the GPA on the resulting page.

- Add the basic html to the send so that the GPA is displayed as an html page. Don't add too much: later we will be using various libraries to take care of generating html.

- As you are working, don't forget to change drivers in pair-programming, practice TDD, write comments, and make frequent commits. As before, at the end just push all the changes to github.

